docs/index.md, before:

---
title: React Native Firebase
description: Welcome to React Native Firebase! To get started, you must first setup a Firebase project and install the "app" module.
next: /typescript
---

React Native Firebase is the officially recommended collection of packages that brings React Native support for all Firebase services on both Android and iOS apps.

## Prerequisites

Before getting started, the documentation assumes you are able to create a project with React Native and that you have an active Firebase project.
If you do not meet these prerequisites, follow the links below:

- [React Native - Setting up the development environment](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup)
- [Create a new Firebase project](https://console.firebase.google.com/)

## Installation

Installing React Native Firebase requires a few steps; installing the NPM module, adding the Firebase config files &
rebuilding your application.

### 1. Install via NPM

Install the React Native Firebase "app" module to the root of your React Native project with NPM or Yarn:

```bash
# Using npm
npm install --save @react-native-firebase/app

# Using Yarn
yarn add @react-native-firebase/app
```

The `@react-native-firebase/app` module must be installed before using any other Firebase service.

### 2. Android Setup

To allow the Android app to securely connect to your Firebase project, a configuration file must be downloaded and added
to your project.

#### Generating Android credentials

On the Firebase console, add a new Android application and enter your projects details. The "Android package name" must match your
local projects package name which can be found inside of the `manifest` tag within the `/android/app/src/main/AndroidManifest.xml`
file within your project.

> The debug signing certificate is optional to use Firebase with your app, but is required for Dynamic Links, Invites and Phone Authentication.
> To generate a certificate run `cd android && ./gradlew signingReport`. This generates two variant keys.
> You have to copy both 'SHA1' and 'SHA-256' keys that belong to the 'debugAndroidTest' variant key option.
> Then, you can add those keys to the 'SHA certificate fingerprints' on your app in Firebase console.

Download the `google-services.json` file and place it inside of your project at the following location: `/android/app/google-services.json`.

#### Configure Firebase with Android credentials

To allow Firebase on Android to use the credentials, the `google-services` plugin must be enabled on the project. This requires modification to two
files in the Android directory.

First, add the `google-services` plugin as a dependency inside of your `/android/build.gradle` file:

```groovy
buildscript {
  dependencies {
    // ... other dependencies
    classpath 'com.google.gms:google-services:4.3.10'
    // Add me --- /\
  }
}
```

Lastly, execute the plugin by adding the following to your `/android/app/build.gradle` file:

```groovy
apply plugin: 'com.android.application'
apply plugin: 'com.google.gms.google-services' // <- Add this line
```

### 3. iOS Setup

To allow the iOS app to securely connect to your Firebase project, a configuration file must be downloaded and added to your project.

#### Generating iOS credentials

On the Firebase console, add a new iOS application and enter your projects details. The "iOS bundle ID" must match your
local project bundle ID. The bundle ID can be found within the "General" tab when opening the project with Xcode.

Download the `GoogleService-Info.plist` file.

Using Xcode, open the projects `/ios/{projectName}.xcodeproj` file (or `/ios/{projectName}.xcworkspace` if using Pods).

Right click on the project name and "Add files" to the project, as demonstrated below:

![Add files via Xcode](https://images.prismic.io/invertase/717983c0-63ca-4b6b-adc5-31318422ab47_add-files-via-xcode.png?auto=format)

Select the downloaded `GoogleService-Info.plist` file from your computer, and ensure the "Copy items if needed" checkbox is enabled.

![Select 'Copy Items if needed'](https://prismic-io.s3.amazonaws.com/invertase%2F7d37e0ce-3e79-468d-930c-b7dc7bc2e291_unknown+%282%29.png)

#### Configure Firebase with iOS credentials

To allow Firebase on iOS to use the credentials, the Firebase iOS SDK must be configured during the bootstrap phase of your application.

To do this, open your `/ios/{projectName}/AppDelegate.m` file, and add the following:

At the top of the file, import the Firebase SDK:

```
#import <Firebase.h>
```

Within your existing `didFinishLaunchingWithOptions` method, add the following to the top of the method:

```
- (BOOL)application:(UIApplication *)application didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:(NSDictionary *)launchOptions {
  // Add me --- \/
  [FIRApp configure];
  // Add me --- /\
  // ...
}
```

### 4. Autolinking & rebuilding

Once the above steps have been completed, the React Native Firebase library must be linked to your project and your application needs to be rebuilt.

Users on React Native 0.60+ automatically have access to "[autolinking](https://github.com/react-native-community/cli/blob/master/docs/autolinking.md)",
requiring no further manual installation steps. To automatically link the package, rebuild your project:

```bash
# Android apps
npx react-native run-android

# iOS apps
cd ios/
pod install --repo-update
cd ..
npx react-native run-ios
```

Once successfully linked and rebuilt, your application will be connected to Firebase using the `@react-native-firebase/app` module. This module does not provide much functionality, therefore to use other Firebase services, each of the modules for the individual Firebase services need installing separately.

#### Manual Linking

If you're using an older version of React Native without autolinking support, or wish to integrate into an existing project,
you can follow the manual installation steps for [iOS](/install-ios) and [Android](/install-android).

---

## Miscellaneous

### Android Enabling Multidex

As your application starts to grow with more native dependencies, your builds may start to fail with the common
`Execution failed for task ':app:mergeDexDebug'` error. This error occurs when Android reaches the
[64k methods](https://developer.android.com/studio/build/multidex) limit.

One common solution is to [enable multidex](/enabling-multidex) support for Android. This is a common solution to solving
the problem, however it is recommended you read the Android documentation to understand how it may impact your application.

### Hermes Support

To support the [Hermes](https://hermesengine.dev/) JavaScript engine, React Native 0.64.0 or newer is required.
However, we cannot guarantee that React Native Firebase works perfectly on it, so please test your project carefully.

### Overriding Native SDK Versions

React Native Firebase internally sets the versions of the native SDKs which each module uses. Each release of the library
is tested against a fixed set of SDK versions (e.g. Firebase SDKs), allowing us to be confident that every feature the
library supports is working as expected.

Sometimes it's required to change these versions to play nicely with other React Native libraries; therefore we allow
manually overriding these native SDK versions.

> Using your own SDK versions is generally not recommended as it can lead to breaking changes in your application. Proceed with caution.

#### Android

Within your projects /android/build.gradle file, provide your own versions by specifying any of the following options shown below:

```groovy
project.ext {
  set('react-native', [
    versions: [
      // Overriding Build/Android SDK Versions
      android : [
        minSdk    : 19,
        targetSdk : 31,
        compileSdk: 31,
        buildTools: "30.0.3"
      ],

      // Overriding Library SDK Versions
      firebase: [
        // Override Firebase SDK Version
        bom           : "29.0.4"
      ],
    ],
  ])
}
```

Once changed, rebuild your application with `npx react-native run-android`.

#### iOS

Open your projects `/ios/Podfile` and add any of the globals shown below to the top of the file:

```ruby
# Override Firebase SDK Version
$FirebaseSDKVersion = '8.11.0'
```

Once changed, reinstall your projects pods via pod install and rebuild your project with `npx react-native run-ios`.

### Increasing Android build memory

As you add more Firebase modules, there is an incredible demand placed on the Android build system, and the default memory
settings will not work. To avoid `OutOfMemory` errors during Android builds, you should uncomment the alternate Gradle memory
setting present in `/android/gradle.properties`:

```
# Specifies the JVM arguments used for the daemon process.
# The setting is particularly useful for tweaking memory settings.
# Default value: -Xmx10248m -XX:MaxPermSize=256m
org.gradle.jvmargs=-Xmx2048m -XX:MaxPermSize=512m -XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError -Dfile.encoding=UTF-8
```

### Android Performance

On Android, React Native Firebase uses [thread pool executor](https://developer.android.com/reference/java/util/concurrent/ThreadPoolExecutor) to provide improved performance and managed resources.
To increase throughput, you can tune the thread pool executor via `firebase.json` file within the root of your project:

```json
// <project-root>/firebase.json
{
  "react-native": {
    "android_task_executor_maximum_pool_size": 10,
    "android_task_executor_keep_alive_seconds": 3
  }
}
```

| Key                                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `android_task_executor_maximum_pool_size`  | Maximum pool size of ThreadPoolExecutor. Defaults to `1`. Larger values typically improve performance when executing large numbers of asynchronous tasks, e.g. Firestore queries. Setting this value to `0` completely disables the pooled executor and all tasks execute in serial per module. |
| `android_task_executor_keep_alive_seconds` | Keep-alive time of ThreadPoolExecutor, in seconds. Defaults to `3`. Excess threads in the pool executor will be terminated if they have been idle for more than the keep-alive time. This value doesn't have any effect when the maximum pool size is lower than `2`.                           |

### Allow iOS Static Frameworks

If you are using Static Frameworks on iOS, you need to manually enable this for the project. To enable Static Framework
support, add the following global to the top of your `/ios/Podfile` file:

```ruby
$RNFirebaseAsStaticFramework = true
```

### Expo

Integration with Expo is possible in both bare workflow and [custom managed workflow](https://docs.expo.io/workflow/customizing/) via [config plugins](https://docs.expo.io/guides/config-plugins/).

React Native Firebase cannot be used in the "Expo Go" app, because [it requires custom native code](https://docs.expo.io/workflow/customizing/).

#### Installation

_If you're using [Bare Workflow](https://docs.expo.io/introduction/managed-vs-bare/#bare-workflow), please follow the above installation steps instead._

The recommendation is to use a [custom development client](https://docs.expo.dev/clients/getting-started/). If starting a new app, you can run `npx create-react-native-app -t with-dev-client` to have this set up automatically. It will also allow you to use the Expo Application Service to test the android and iOS builds.

After installing the `@react-native-firebase/app` NPM package, add the [config plugin](https://docs.expo.io/guides/config-plugins/) to the [`plugins`](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/config/app/#plugins) array of your `app.json` or `app.config.js`.

Also, you have to provide paths to the `google-services.json` and `GoogleService-Info.plist` files by specifying the [`expo.android.googleServicesFile`](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/config/app/#googleservicesfile-1) and [`expo.ios.googleServicesFile`](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/config/app/#googleservicesfile) fields respectively.

The `app.json` for integration that included the optional crashlytics and performance as well as the mandatory app plugin would look like this, customize based on which optional modules you use:

```json
{
  "expo": {
    "android": {
      "googleServicesFile": "./google-services.json"
    },
    "ios": {
      "googleServicesFile": "./GoogleService-Info.plist"
    },
    "plugins": [
      "@react-native-firebase/app",
      "@react-native-firebase/perf",
      "@react-native-firebase/crashlytics"
    ]
  }
}
```

Next, you need to use the `expo prebuild --clean` command as described in the ["Adding custom native code"](https://docs.expo.io/workflow/customizing/) guide to rebuild your app with the plugin changes. If this command isn't run, you'll encounter connection errors to Firebase.

Config plugins are only required for React Native Firebase modules, which require custom native installation steps - e.g. modifying the Xcode project, `Podfile`, `build.gradle`, `AndroidManifest.xml` etc. Packages without native steps required will work out of the box.

> Not all React Native Firebase packages have Expo config plugins provided yet. You may see if a module is supported by checking if it contains the `app.plugin.js` file in its package directory.
>
> If you're using the [Expo Tools](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=byCedric.vscode-expo) VSCode extension, the IntelliSense will display a list of available plugins, when editing the `plugins` section of `app.json`.

Commit message:

replace all for @react-native-firebase with @topher_pedersen and bump version numbers to 18 for app and analytics modules, todo: publish to npm

docs/index.md, after:

---
title: React Native Firebase
description: Welcome to React Native Firebase! To get started, you must first setup a Firebase project and install the "app" module.
next: /typescript
---

React Native Firebase is the officially recommended collection of packages that brings React Native support for all Firebase services on both Android and iOS apps.

## Prerequisites

Before getting started, the documentation assumes you are able to create a project with React Native and that you have an active Firebase project.
If you do not meet these prerequisites, follow the links below:

- [React Native - Setting up the development environment](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup)
- [Create a new Firebase project](https://console.firebase.google.com/)

## Installation

Installing React Native Firebase requires a few steps; installing the NPM module, adding the Firebase config files &
rebuilding your application.

### 1. Install via NPM

Install the React Native Firebase "app" module to the root of your React Native project with NPM or Yarn:

```bash
# Using npm
npm install --save @topher_pedersen/app

# Using Yarn
yarn add @topher_pedersen/app
```

The `@topher_pedersen/app` module must be installed before using any other Firebase service.

### 2. Android Setup

To allow the Android app to securely connect to your Firebase project, a configuration file must be downloaded and added
to your project.

#### Generating Android credentials

On the Firebase console, add a new Android application and enter your projects details. The "Android package name" must match your
local projects package name which can be found inside of the `manifest` tag within the `/android/app/src/main/AndroidManifest.xml`
file within your project.

> The debug signing certificate is optional to use Firebase with your app, but is required for Dynamic Links, Invites and Phone Authentication.
> To generate a certificate run `cd android && ./gradlew signingReport`. This generates two variant keys.
> You have to copy both 'SHA1' and 'SHA-256' keys that belong to the 'debugAndroidTest' variant key option.
> Then, you can add those keys to the 'SHA certificate fingerprints' on your app in Firebase console.

Download the `google-services.json` file and place it inside of your project at the following location: `/android/app/google-services.json`.

#### Configure Firebase with Android credentials

To allow Firebase on Android to use the credentials, the `google-services` plugin must be enabled on the project. This requires modification to two
files in the Android directory.

First, add the `google-services` plugin as a dependency inside of your `/android/build.gradle` file:

```groovy
buildscript {
  dependencies {
    // ... other dependencies
    classpath 'com.google.gms:google-services:4.3.10'
    // Add me --- /\
  }
}
```

Lastly, execute the plugin by adding the following to your `/android/app/build.gradle` file:

```groovy
apply plugin: 'com.android.application'
apply plugin: 'com.google.gms.google-services' // <- Add this line
```

### 3. iOS Setup

To allow the iOS app to securely connect to your Firebase project, a configuration file must be downloaded and added to your project.

#### Generating iOS credentials

On the Firebase console, add a new iOS application and enter your projects details. The "iOS bundle ID" must match your
local project bundle ID. The bundle ID can be found within the "General" tab when opening the project with Xcode.

Download the `GoogleService-Info.plist` file.

Using Xcode, open the projects `/ios/{projectName}.xcodeproj` file (or `/ios/{projectName}.xcworkspace` if using Pods).

Right click on the project name and "Add files" to the project, as demonstrated below:

![Add files via Xcode](https://images.prismic.io/invertase/717983c0-63ca-4b6b-adc5-31318422ab47_add-files-via-xcode.png?auto=format)

Select the downloaded `GoogleService-Info.plist` file from your computer, and ensure the "Copy items if needed" checkbox is enabled.

![Select 'Copy Items if needed'](https://prismic-io.s3.amazonaws.com/invertase%2F7d37e0ce-3e79-468d-930c-b7dc7bc2e291_unknown+%282%29.png)

#### Configure Firebase with iOS credentials

To allow Firebase on iOS to use the credentials, the Firebase iOS SDK must be configured during the bootstrap phase of your application.

To do this, open your `/ios/{projectName}/AppDelegate.m` file, and add the following:

At the top of the file, import the Firebase SDK:

```
#import <Firebase.h>
```

Within your existing `didFinishLaunchingWithOptions` method, add the following to the top of the method:

```
- (BOOL)application:(UIApplication *)application didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:(NSDictionary *)launchOptions {
  // Add me --- \/
  [FIRApp configure];
  // Add me --- /\
  // ...
}
```

### 4. Autolinking & rebuilding

Once the above steps have been completed, the React Native Firebase library must be linked to your project and your application needs to be rebuilt.

Users on React Native 0.60+ automatically have access to "[autolinking](https://github.com/react-native-community/cli/blob/master/docs/autolinking.md)",
requiring no further manual installation steps. To automatically link the package, rebuild your project:

```bash
# Android apps
npx react-native run-android

# iOS apps
cd ios/
pod install --repo-update
cd ..
npx react-native run-ios
```

Once successfully linked and rebuilt, your application will be connected to Firebase using the `@topher_pedersen/app` module. This module does not provide much functionality, therefore to use other Firebase services, each of the modules for the individual Firebase services need installing separately.

#### Manual Linking

If you're using an older version of React Native without autolinking support, or wish to integrate into an existing project,
you can follow the manual installation steps for [iOS](/install-ios) and [Android](/install-android).

---

## Miscellaneous

### Android Enabling Multidex

As your application starts to grow with more native dependencies, your builds may start to fail with the common
`Execution failed for task ':app:mergeDexDebug'` error. This error occurs when Android reaches the
[64k methods](https://developer.android.com/studio/build/multidex) limit.

One common solution is to [enable multidex](/enabling-multidex) support for Android. This is a common solution to solving
the problem, however it is recommended you read the Android documentation to understand how it may impact your application.

### Hermes Support

To support the [Hermes](https://hermesengine.dev/) JavaScript engine, React Native 0.64.0 or newer is required.
However, we cannot guarantee that React Native Firebase works perfectly on it, so please test your project carefully.

### Overriding Native SDK Versions

React Native Firebase internally sets the versions of the native SDKs which each module uses. Each release of the library
is tested against a fixed set of SDK versions (e.g. Firebase SDKs), allowing us to be confident that every feature the
library supports is working as expected.

Sometimes it's required to change these versions to play nicely with other React Native libraries; therefore we allow
manually overriding these native SDK versions.

> Using your own SDK versions is generally not recommended as it can lead to breaking changes in your application. Proceed with caution.

#### Android

Within your projects /android/build.gradle file, provide your own versions by specifying any of the following options shown below:

```groovy
project.ext {
  set('react-native', [
    versions: [
      // Overriding Build/Android SDK Versions
      android : [
        minSdk    : 19,
        targetSdk : 31,
        compileSdk: 31,
        buildTools: "30.0.3"
      ],

      // Overriding Library SDK Versions
      firebase: [
        // Override Firebase SDK Version
        bom           : "29.0.4"
      ],
    ],
  ])
}
```

Once changed, rebuild your application with `npx react-native run-android`.

#### iOS

Open your projects `/ios/Podfile` and add any of the globals shown below to the top of the file:

```ruby
# Override Firebase SDK Version
$FirebaseSDKVersion = '8.11.0'
```

Once changed, reinstall your projects pods via pod install and rebuild your project with `npx react-native run-ios`.

### Increasing Android build memory

As you add more Firebase modules, there is an incredible demand placed on the Android build system, and the default memory
settings will not work. To avoid `OutOfMemory` errors during Android builds, you should uncomment the alternate Gradle memory
setting present in `/android/gradle.properties`:

```
# Specifies the JVM arguments used for the daemon process.
# The setting is particularly useful for tweaking memory settings.
# Default value: -Xmx10248m -XX:MaxPermSize=256m
org.gradle.jvmargs=-Xmx2048m -XX:MaxPermSize=512m -XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError -Dfile.encoding=UTF-8
```

### Android Performance

On Android, React Native Firebase uses [thread pool executor](https://developer.android.com/reference/java/util/concurrent/ThreadPoolExecutor) to provide improved performance and managed resources.
To increase throughput, you can tune the thread pool executor via `firebase.json` file within the root of your project:

```json
// <project-root>/firebase.json
{
  "react-native": {
    "android_task_executor_maximum_pool_size": 10,
    "android_task_executor_keep_alive_seconds": 3
  }
}
```

| Key                                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `android_task_executor_maximum_pool_size`  | Maximum pool size of ThreadPoolExecutor. Defaults to `1`. Larger values typically improve performance when executing large numbers of asynchronous tasks, e.g. Firestore queries. Setting this value to `0` completely disables the pooled executor and all tasks execute in serial per module. |
| `android_task_executor_keep_alive_seconds` | Keep-alive time of ThreadPoolExecutor, in seconds. Defaults to `3`. Excess threads in the pool executor will be terminated if they have been idle for more than the keep-alive time. This value doesn't have any effect when the maximum pool size is lower than `2`.                           |

### Allow iOS Static Frameworks

If you are using Static Frameworks on iOS, you need to manually enable this for the project. To enable Static Framework
support, add the following global to the top of your `/ios/Podfile` file:

```ruby
$RNFirebaseAsStaticFramework = true
```

### Expo

Integration with Expo is possible in both bare workflow and [custom managed workflow](https://docs.expo.io/workflow/customizing/) via [config plugins](https://docs.expo.io/guides/config-plugins/).

React Native Firebase cannot be used in the "Expo Go" app, because [it requires custom native code](https://docs.expo.io/workflow/customizing/).

#### Installation

_If you're using [Bare Workflow](https://docs.expo.io/introduction/managed-vs-bare/#bare-workflow), please follow the above installation steps instead._

The recommendation is to use a [custom development client](https://docs.expo.dev/clients/getting-started/). If starting a new app, you can run `npx create-react-native-app -t with-dev-client` to have this set up automatically. It will also allow you to use the Expo Application Service to test the android and iOS builds.

After installing the `@topher_pedersen/app` NPM package, add the [config plugin](https://docs.expo.io/guides/config-plugins/) to the [`plugins`](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/config/app/#plugins) array of your `app.json` or `app.config.js`.

Also, you have to provide paths to the `google-services.json` and `GoogleService-Info.plist` files by specifying the [`expo.android.googleServicesFile`](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/config/app/#googleservicesfile-1) and [`expo.ios.googleServicesFile`](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/config/app/#googleservicesfile) fields respectively.

The `app.json` for integration that included the optional crashlytics and performance as well as the mandatory app plugin would look like this, customize based on which optional modules you use:

```json
{
  "expo": {
    "android": {
      "googleServicesFile": "./google-services.json"
    },
    "ios": {
      "googleServicesFile": "./GoogleService-Info.plist"
    },
    "plugins": [
      "@topher_pedersen/app",
      "@topher_pedersen/perf",
      "@topher_pedersen/crashlytics"
    ]
  }
}
```

Next, you need to use the `expo prebuild --clean` command as described in the ["Adding custom native code"](https://docs.expo.io/workflow/customizing/) guide to rebuild your app with the plugin changes. If this command isn't run, you'll encounter connection errors to Firebase.

Config plugins are only required for React Native Firebase modules, which require custom native installation steps - e.g. modifying the Xcode project, `Podfile`, `build.gradle`, `AndroidManifest.xml` etc. Packages without native steps required will work out of the box.

> Not all React Native Firebase packages have Expo config plugins provided yet. You may see if a module is supported by checking if it contains the `app.plugin.js` file in its package directory.
>
> If you're using the [Expo Tools](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=byCedric.vscode-expo) VSCode extension, the IntelliSense will display a list of available plugins, when editing the `plugins` section of `app.json`.
